---
layout: post
title:      "**CLI DATA GEM PROJECT"
date:       2020-01-19 16:26:26 -0500
permalink:  cli_data_gem_project
---


The NOTORIOUS first project. Going into this I was pretty nervous. Its one thing to go through the lessons and labs and give yourself the illusion that you know how to implement everything you've learned. Its a whole nother animal to have to build something from scratch using those same methods and concepts. Im a rollback from and earlier cohort and this project is the reason why. Countless hours spent building this thing and then after I thought I had checked all my boxes I go to try to run the completed version for the first time...and alas...SYNTAX ERRORS GALORE. Attacking those became the bane of my existence. My approach for this project the first time around was all wrong. I thought that if I follow the walk thru that Avi did for us, theres no way I wouldnt do well on this. Little did I know that every cli data gem differs even if the concepts are similar. This time around I tried to basically build what I had from the ground up. Using a better understanding of concepts and basic object orientation I began building. I built a cli application that scrapes listing data from craigslist to provide hopeful engineers with available job listings. Fitting right? Thankfully the building out of methods and classes was pretty straightforward. I built out a CLI.rb which served as my menu when you first boot the gem. After that I built out a Job.rb in which I defined what a job is. Using self. I gave the job class an identity which the scraper coudl use to output listings in an organized manner. Naturally next was the Scrape.rb. This was probably the roughest portion of my project. Scraping the data wasnt so bad it was more using the scrape data to output Job and URL to those jobs that was difficult. Several hours of typos and syntax errors later I had gotten that to work. Now I had a scraper that would output job listing titles to the user, then provide the link to the postings so the user can check out the details for the listing. Thankfully the slack community really helped me figure out a few seemingly impossible errors that I ran across. One issue was that I had forgotten to give the Job class a URL attribute but was asking for a url from the scraper. I dont know if I just never wrote it or it got deleted thru the countless hours of running thru errors but thankfully the fresh set of eyes spotted it after a few minutes and I was in business. Now that this is complete I plan to prep for the nerve wracking assessment. Whoever conducts my interview, Im a good man, please be kind lol. 
